GET4G.COM

  Captures to disk the contents of whatever is visible at the top 4GB of
  addressable RAM or ROM. Uses flat real mode to do so, which requires a
  386 or higher.

  This version is recommended for any 486/Pentium or higher system because
  these processors are capable of addressing up to 4GB, and therefore, on
  CPU reset, the BIOS is located at the top of the 4GB region. A 386SX
  with 24-bit addressing will also work with this programming, since the
  top 4GB in that case will be one of many aliases of the BIOS at just under
  16MB.

  Please note that if you are running this on a system made on or after
  1998 it is recommended you check the size of the ROM chip. If the ROM
  chip is 1MB or larger, you will need to use an alternate version of this
  program designed to capture more data:

     GET4G_2M.COM      4GB - 2MB capture
     GET4G_4M.COM      4GB - 4MB capture
     GET4G_8M.COM      4GB - 8MB capture

  Also note that most systems with a Pentium chip or higher, or made after
  1995, have compressed data in ROM which is extracted to shadow RAM on
  boot up. This means that the contents in the C0000-FFFFF range will
  differ from the actual ROM contents at the top of the 4GB range, and
  should not be relied on except for reference if studying decompression.
  On these systems, use of the GET4G.COM program is required to get a
  correct snapshot of your ROM BIOS.

Target hardware:

  386/486/Pentium or newer hardware, up to modern day systems.

Not recommended for:

  - Windows or OS/2 "DOS boxes". Windows mucks with the adapter ROM area and
    maps things in there like system structures, etc. A snapshot from within
    a DOS box would produce an incorrect capture.

Recommendations:

  - This program only captures the top 1MB, which is enough to capture most
    BIOSes on motherboards sold in the 1990's. However, if the system was
    made 1998 or sooner, check to make sure the BIOS chip is 1MB or smaller.
    If it is not, this program will not capture the entire image, and you
    will need to use alternate versions that read more data.

